# Recommendations

68. Media freedom and independence cannot be secured without greater solidarity among journalists. The Special Rapporteur calls upon journalist associations to discuss the impact of the current kisha club system and for all in a position of responsibility to, at the very least, broaden the membership to allow the widest possible range of journalists to participate. The Special Rapporteur also calls for journalists to assess how the promotion of independent reporting could be furthered by the promotion of associations among professionals working 


 # 1. The broadcast media

16. Japanese law recognizes the principle of broadcast media independence. Article 3 of the Broadcast Act8 emphasizes, “Broadcast programs shall not be interfered with or regulated by any person except in cases pursuant to the authority provided for in laws.” In keeping with this imperative of independence, a Broadcasting Ethics and Program Improvement Organization (BPO) was created in order to implement self-regulation, thereby avoiding government interference. The Broadcast Act, regulating both public and commercial broadcasters, and the Radio Act9 are the principal sources of regulation in this space. As the Government has emphasized to the Special Rapporteur, these laws presuppose broadcaster autonomy and independence.

17. Under international standards, broadcast regulation should be conducted by an independent third-party actor, but the Broadcast Act, which regulates both the public Japan Broadcasting Corporation (NHK) and commercial broadcasters, lodges authority over them in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications. Article 174 of the Broadcast Act states: “If the broadcaster (excluding terrestrial basic broadcasters) has violated this Act or an order or disposition based on this Act, the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications shall set a period within three months and shall order the suspension of the operations of the broadcasting.”10 Article 76 of the Radio Act gives the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications the power to suspend business operations of television and radio broadcasters for violations of the Broadcast Act or Radio Act.11 While substantive norms within the law promote autonomy and independence, this institutional framework creates the possibility of a regulatory environment that could result in undue restrictions on media freedom and independence.

18. In short, media regulation in Japan is not legally independent of government, in particular not from the political party in power at any given moment. It is in the interests of the Government, the parties, and most importantly the people of Japan that this system be remedied and independent regulation replace the current system.

19. The lack of an independent media regulator does not pose merely hypothetical problems for the broadcast sector. The possibility of government interference based on content or affiliation – even if never sought in the government’s past – looms as a potential risk for the media, possibly deterring investigations that could run afoul of political sensitivities. This concern was raised time and again during the Special Rapporteur’s visit. Repeatedly, media professionals and academic and civil society observers raised a concern that the Broadcast Act mixes elements of ethical obligation with non-independent government power. Some saw official statements as making this concern valid, while some representatives from private media associations expressed the view that they do not perceive or fear pressure from the Government. The Government assured the Special Rapporteur that broadcasters are to comply with the Broadcast Act independently and autonomously, yet also maintained that as the ministry with jurisdiction over the Broadcast Act, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications may lawfully apply the Act to suspend business operations of broadcasters.
